# Crossword-Game
The Crossword Puzzle project is designed to create a program, written entirely in the Python language, that displays an adjustable numbered grid that allows users to play a crossword game. 

The sys library is imported and used (sys.stdout.write) to avoid print() appending a newline operator to the grid by default.

 Users can adjust the size of the crossword grid by changing the variable, girdSize, in line 3. The default gridSize is 15. This creates a 15x15 crossword.
 
The main() function, first in line 8, calls the read_puzzle() function from line 65-87. The read_puzzle() function opens an accompanying .csv file called “puzzle.csv,” which contains the direction, length of the word, and the clue connected to the word. read_puzzle() then creates a dictionary named puzzle and assigns the readline operator to line. In line 70, a while loop is created and will continue to loop on the condition that the length of the line currently being read is above the size of 0. The while loop will use the .strip operator to split the line currently read into separate words or numbers using the spacing between the characters; these words are, then, read into a dictionary named newWord. The first and second number becomes the y and x, respectively. The third and fourth characters are assigned as the box and direction. The fifth and sixth characters are the displayed word and the clue that is displayed when the user requests a hint.  The read_puzzle() then returns the puzzle dictionary.

The puzzle dictionary is then imputed, through line 9, into the create_gird(puzzle) function. The create_grid(puzzle) function using the gridSize variable in a range() to create grid. The create_grid(puzzle) function is mainly comprised of overlapping for loops to display the basic crossword’s grid of words. The for loops will take the word and create a list named list_word. A nested for loop takes the letters in list_word and forms a grid using the previously assigned x and y variables in the puzzle dicitionary. If the direction in the puzzle dictionary is an “A,” or across, the nested for loop will increase the x value; if the direction in the puzzle dictionary is a “D,” or down, the nested for loop will increase the y value by 1. As the primary for loop recurs the created grid is created using the new x and y values. The create_grid(puzzle), finally, returns the grid.

The puzzle_size variable is assigned by finding the size of the puzzle dictionary using .keys operator to return all the keys within the puzzle. The guessed_words variable is initiated at 0 in line 10. This variable will be used later in the main() function to keep track of the amount of words that is in the puzzle_size variable.

In line 12, the print_grid(puzzle, grid) function is executed, inputting both the puzzle dicitionary and the grid from the create_grid(puzzle) function. The purpose of the print_grid(puzzle, grid) function is to reveal the crossword grid to the user and display the correctly guessed and unguessed words(in asterisks).The function(lines 152-176) uses 4 four loops to print a grid to the console. The first for loop will take the keys from the puzzle dicitionary and place them into x, y, and box lists. These lists are combined into boxNumbers, which is used in the nested for loops (162-174) to help draw the outline and frames of the boxes of the grid. The loops the amount in the, earlier defined, gridSize variable. The if and elif statements within the for loops will decide the length of the outline and will check if a number will be placed, to mark the grid for the player, in the outline. The final nested for loop (172-174) will print the sides of the “boxes.”  Line 176 is used to “cap off” the grid and produces the bottom line of the crossword.

The while loop of the main(), using the empty_count(grid) function in lines 141-148, checks the spaces, which hold the correctly guessed letters, to execute the loop.  As long as the while loop runs, it will always print off the menu in lines 16 and 17. This menu will print off the options that a user can select from and will prompt the user to input a choice. If the user inputs an invalid choice, the while loop will print an error message and redisplay the menu. 

If the user selects “Q” (quit), the program will thank the player and displayed the amount of correct words that a user had out of the total amount of words, during the program’s execution. It will then prompt the user to input anything to exit the program.

 If the player selects “G” (Guess Word), the program will ask the user to input the box number and direction that they would like to guess in. The program will then use the find_word(puzzle, box, direction) function (lines 133-137) to verify if the inputted location of the word is valid. If the location is valid, the program will prompt the user to guess the word. If the inputted guess is the same as the foundWord variable, or the guessword variable, then the program will add the word to the displayed grid via the addword() function (112-122), which simply replaces the correct spaces in the “boxes” with the appropriate letters and it will alert the user that their guess is correct; otherwise it will inform the user that their guess is wrong.
 
If the user selects “C” (Show  Clue),  the program will ask the user to input the box number and direction they would like the clue from. The program will then use the find_word(puzzle, box, direction) function (lines 133-137) to verify if the inputted location of the word is valid. If the location is valid, the program will print out the clue. If the location is invalid, the user will receive an error message.

If the user chooses “R” (Print Grid), it will run the print_grid(puzzle, function) again.

The user, if they correctly guess all the words, will receive a congratulatory message and will also be prompted to exit the game.
